Update Rules & Alerting doc with obsctl (#45)
rhobs/handbook: content/Services/RHOBS/rules-and-alerting.md

As explained in more details [here](README.md), RHOBS features a deployment of [Observatorium](../../Projects/Observability/observatorium.md).

> Through the Observatorium API, tenants are able to **create**, **read**, **update** and **delete** their own Prometheus [recording](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/recording_rules/) and [alerting](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) rules via the [Observatorium Rules API](https://observatorium.io/docs/design/rules-api.md/).

Reviewer: I always find it a bit confusing that we actually cannot delete rule, we can only update the rules to be empty. If I recall correctly, we only support `PUT` verb, right? Which technically means we always update rules, but not really create or delete them.

Maybe just worth mentioning below, i.e. if a tenant wants to delete the rules, they actually have to update it (`PUT`) to be empty rule, as we don't support `DELETE` verb.

Author: Yes, let me address these comments in another PR! 🙂

### Authenticate against the Observatorium API

To have access to the [Observatorium API](https://github.com/observatorium/api), the tenant making the requests needs to be correctly authenticated. For this you can install [obsctl](https://github.com/observatorium/obsctl) which is a dedicated CLI tool to interact with Observatorium instances as tenants. It uses the provided credentials to fetch OAuth2 access tokens via OIDC and saves both the token and credentials for multiple tenants and APIs, locally.

> You can get up and running quickly with the following steps,

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
You can get it up and running quickly with the following steps,
```

* Make sure you have Go 1.17+ on your system and install obsctl,

  ```bash
  go install github.com/observatorium/obsctl@latest
  ```

* Add your desired Observatorium API,

  ```bash
  obsctl context api add --name='staging-api' --url='https://observatorium-mst.api.stage.openshift.com'
  ```

* Save credentials for a tenant under the API you just added (you will need your own OIDC Client ID and Client Secret),

  ```bash

>   obsctl login --api='staging-api' --oidc.audience='observatorium' --oidc.client-id='<CLIENT_ID>' --oidc.client-secret='<SECRET>' --oidc.issuer-url='https://sso.redhat.com/auth/realms/redhat-external' --tenant='rhobs'

Reviewer 2: might be worth setting the tenant as <TENANT> placeholder to avoid confusion?

  ```

* Verify that you are using the correct API + tenant combination or "context" (in this case it would be `staging-api/rhobs`),

  ```bash
  obsctl context current
  ```

For this tutorial we will be using `https://observatorium-mst.api.stage.openshift.com` as our target Observatorium API.

Now that we have set up obsctl, let's start creating an alerting rule.

### Create an alerting rule

A tenant can create and list recording and alerting rules via the Observatorium Rules API. For this tutorial we will be creating an alerting rule, to also make use of the alerting capabilities that are available in Observatorium.

If you want to get more details about how to interact with the Rules API and its different endpoints, refer to the upstream [documentation](https://observatorium.io/docs/design/rules-api.md/) or [OpenAPI spec](https://observatorium.io/docs/api).

> In your local environment, create an Prometheus alerting rule YAML file with the definition of the alert you want to add. Note that the file should be defined following the [Observatorium OpenAPI specification](https://github.com/observatorium/api/blob/main/rules/spec.yaml). The file should be in Prometheus [recording](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/recording_rules/) and/or [alerting](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) rules format.

Reviewer 2: "create an Prometheus" -> "create a Prometheus"

      severity: page
```

Now to set this rule file, you can use obsctl,

```bash
obsctl metrics set --rule.file=/path/to/alerting-rule.yaml
```

obsctl uses the credentials you saved earlier, to make an authenticated `application/yaml` `PUT` request to the `api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint of the Observatorium API, which **creates** your alerting rule.

obsctl should print out the response, which, if successful, would be: `successfully updated rules file`.

Besides checking this response, you can also list or **read** the configured rules for your tenant by,

```bash
obsctl metrics get rules.raw
```

This would make a `GET` request to `api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint and return the rules you configured in YAML form. This endpoint will immediately reflect any newly set rules.

> Note that in the response a `tenant_id` label for the particular tenant was added automatically. Since Observatorium API is tenant-aware, this extra validation step is also performed. Also, in the case of rules expressions, the `tenant_id` labels are injected into the PromQL query, which ensures that only data from a specific tenant is selected during evaluation.

Reviewer: Maybe we don't need to go into too much details on label enforcement, since this should primarily be 'how to' tutorial. Maybe just shortening it to explaining why users will see `tenant_id`, to keep the amount of information digestible, something like:

```suggestion
Note that in the response a `tenant_id` label for the particular tenant was added automatically, since this ensures tenancy in Observatorium.
```

You can also check your rule's configuration, health, and resultant alerts by,

```bash
obsctl metrics get rules
```

This would make a `GET` request to `api/v1/rules` endpoint, and return rules you configured in [Prometheus HTTP API format JSON response](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#rules). You can read more about checking rule state [here](#check-the-alerting-rule-state).

Note that this endpoint does not reflect newly set rules immediately and might take up to a minute to sync.

### How to update and delete an alerting rule

> As mentioned in the [upstream docs](https://observatorium.io/docs/design/rules-api.md/#example-request) that each time a `PUT` request is made to the `/api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint, the rules contained in the request will overwrite all the other rules for that tenant. Thus, each time you use `obsctl metrics set --rule.file=<file>` it will overwrite all other rules for a tenant with the new rule file.

Reviewer: I would not be afraid to even be **bold** here :smile: 
```suggestion
As mentioned in the [upstream docs](https://observatorium.io/docs/design/rules-api.md/#example-request) that each time a `PUT` request is made to the `/api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint, the rules contained in the request will overwrite all the other rules for that tenant. **Thus, each time you use `obsctl metrics set --rule.file=<file>` it will overwrite all other rules for a tenant with the new rule file.**
```

#### Check the alerting rule state

It is possible to check all rule groups for a tenant by querying `/api/v1/rules` endpoint (i.e by running `obsctl metrics get rules`). `/api/v1/rules` supports only `GET` requests and proxies to the upstream read endpoint (in this case, [Thanos Querier](https://thanos.io/tip/components/query.md/)).

This endpoint returns the processed and evaluated rules from Observatorium's [Thanos Rule](https://thanos.io/tip/components/rule.md/#rule-aka-ruler) in [Prometheus HTTP API format JSON](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/#rules).

> It is different from `api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint (which can be queried by running `obsctl metrics get rules.raw`) in a few ways,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is different from `api/v1/rules/raw` endpoint (which can be queried by running `obsctl metrics get rules.raw`) in a few ways:
```

> * `api/v1/rules/raw` only returns the unprocess/raw rule file YAML that was configured whereas `api/v1/rules` returns processed JSON rules with health and alert data.

Reviewer 2: unprocess -> unprocessed

> * `api/v1/rules/raw` only returns the unprocess/raw rule file YAML that was configured whereas `api/v1/rules` returns processed JSON rules with health and alert data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `api/v1/rules/raw` only returns the unprocessed/raw rule YAML file that was provided by user, whereas `api/v1/rules` returns processed JSON rules with health and alert data.
```
